# [Notes 19](https://codewithharry.com/videos/c-language-tutorials-in-hindi-19)


### Functions :
- Functions are used to divide a large C program into smaller pieces.
- Function can be called multiple or several times to provide reusability and modularity to the C program.
- Functions are also called as procedure or subroutines.
- It is a piece of code to accomplish certain operation.

- Function is nothing but a group of code put together and given a name and it can be called anytime without writing the whole code again and again in a program.


### Advantages of Functions :
- We can avoid rewriting same logic or code through functions.
- We can divide the work among programmers using functions.
- We can easily debug or can find bugs in any program using functions.
 

### Function Aspects
There are 3 aspects of function :-

- Declaration
- Definition
- Call

 

### Types of Functions
- Library Functions  

These are pre-defined functions in C Language. These are the functions which are included in C header files.
>E.g. printf(), scanf() etc.

- User defined Functions

Functions created by programmer to reduce complexity of a program i.e. these are the functions which are created by user or programmer.
> E.g. Any function created by programmer.


 

 

## Ways to define a Function

There are 4 ways in which we can define any C Function and these are :



1. Without arguments and without return value

In this function we don’t have to give any value to the function (argument/parameters) and even don’t have to take any value from it in return.

2. Without arguments and with return value

In these type of functions we don’t have to give any value or argument to function but in return we get something from it i.e. some value.


3. With arguments and without return value

In these type of function we give arguments or parameters to function but we don’t get any value from it in return.

 
4. With arguments and with return value

In these functions we give arguments to function and in return we also get some value from it.

#

>Every C Program must contain one function i.e. main() function as execution of every C program starts from main() function.
