# [Notes 4](https://codewithharry.com/videos/c-language-tutorials-in-hindi-4)

- Pre-processor commands
- Functions
- Variables
- Statements
- Expressions
- Comments

### Pre-processor commands.

- #include <stdio.h>  

This is the first line of code. Any line starting with # represents a preprocessing command. It tells our program that before its execution, it must include the stdio.h named file in it because we are using some of the commands or codes from this file.

For example, if our programs needs mathematical operations of high level them we must include:

- #include <math.h>  

It helps us to use the code from math.h file for the calculations in our programs.

- int main()

this is the 2nd line. main() is function here and we will see the detail about the function in later tutorials. Here int is the return type of function and the return type is according to the functions activity i.e. if it is giving an integer variable as a result then return type should be int.

- int a, b;

here we are initializing two variables as integers. Initializing with integer means that we can store integer values in it. If we would have initialized them with char then we could have stored character values in it such as a, b, c, d, etc.  

- printf("Enter number a\n");

This is simply a print statement. Whatever we write in the brackets will be directly printed onto the screen. /n is the new line character here.

- scanf("%d", &a);

 scanf is used to take inputs from the user. Here &a gives the address of variable “a” to store the user's given value. %d notifies that the value should be of integer type.

- printf("The sum is %d\n", a+b);

Here a+b is simply a mathematical addition and  print statement is printing the result onto the screen.

- return 0;

we need a return value for a function. The function we created was of int type so it is returning 0. Return 0 means that the function is working perfectly.

Note: Return statement and function type should be same.

- //This is a comment

We write comments by using the double slash sign (//). Comments are to notify other programmers the working of the code at specific intervals or we write them for our-self. They do not have any effect on the written program.

#  

Code   
#include <stdio.h>  
int main()  
{  
    int a, b;  
    printf("Enter number a\n");  
    scanf("%d", &a);  
    printf("Enter number b\n");  
    scanf("%d", &b);  
    printf("The sum is %d\n", a+b);  
    return 0;  
}  
  
#  